Do you remember the beautiful dramas we had at the regional convention last year?
One of them was about King Hezekiah.
We saw not only the threat Jehovah's people faced,
but also the protection Jehovah provided.
In producing the drama, the audio video services department used a lot of visual effects.
Let's go behind the scenes and find out what the work entailed.
The goal of our visual effects team is to take the work done during film production and expand it.
Our work was driven by the Bible account.
The audience needed to feel the intimidating power of the Assyrian Army while not endangering our actors.
And the use of visual effects had the added benefit of drastically saving donated funds.
But this meant creating hundreds of digital arrows,
war machines, cities, tents, soldiers, and even an Assyrian palace.
In some cases, the foreground elements had to be separated from the background,
so digital components could be added.
This was a time-consuming process,
as many foreground elements had to be cut out, frame by frame,
24 times for each second of video.
Our research team ensured the world created was as accurate as possible.
For example, having period-correct materials for the temple,
as well as accurate stone reliefs.
After filming was complete, the research team noted some scenes in the treasury
were accidentally shot showing priests wearing sandals.
As this was inaccurate, the issue was corrected by generating additional digital treasures
and placing them in the foreground.
As we didn't have the luxury of 185,000 extras,
actors were dressed in ancient costumes and their pictures taken.
We then used these pictures to create digital extras,
using crowd simulating software to place them in the scenes and drive their movements.
The angel shot proved to be one of the most challenging.
The original version didn't have the dramatic feel needed for the scene,
so the entire sequence was recreated to more accurately convey the immense power
those present must have witnessed.
Finishing this project on schedule had many challenges.
After hearing about just a few of them,
one industry expert said what we were attempting was impossible.
What like Hezekiah when hearing negative reports,
we stayed positive and relied on Jehovah.
With his help, the film was completed on time
and is now a wonderful tool to bring this Bible account to life.